Official League Constitution
- Founded 2018 -

This is a true franchise building experience designed to mimic the NBA salary structures,
using a hard salary cap and elements of the real collective bargaining agreement to
construct your franchise.

I. League Description
A. Scoring
1. 10 team head-to-head style scoring system
2. PTS (+1), REB AST (+.75), STL BLK (+1), TO (-1), FGMI FTMI (-.5)
B. Roster Makeup
1. 13 minimum - 15 maximum active roster spots (+2 IR spots and +3 Two Way
spots during regular season only)
2. G, G, F, F, C, G/F, PF/C, UTL, UTL, *IR, *IR
a) *See IR eligibility rules section
3. Teams must adhere to the hard salary cap (25 UNITS)
a) Players are subject to NBA style contracts that establishes UNITs as
currency to be allocated to players based upon player tier payscale
b) See salary cap rules section for tier makeup
C. Weekly Matchup Format
1. Regular Season Weeks 1-18
2. Matchups normally consist of 27 games
a) Some weeks have a shortened total of games due to NBA schedule
b) Lineups can be set weekly and/or daily with players locking at the
beginning of each individual game
c) Exceeding weekly maximum games results in the penalty below
(1) Points from game over the maximum allowed is deducted PLUS
an additional +20 pts per game played being subtracted from
that weeks total
(2) $5 per game over maximum deducted from $25 refundable fee
d) Not reaching maximum weekly games played results in penalty below
(1) $5 per game being deducted per game short of 27 game weekly
total deducted from $25 refundable fee
(a) All missed games result in a $5 fine - no exceptions.
(b) Teams are urged to plan ahead accordingly
(2) 10 games missed will result in a bump down in Rookie draft
odds team slots
(a) Example - finishing 9th would give you 8th place odds
(3) 15 games missed will result in penalty for 10 games and an
automatic switch with team behind you in draft after lottery has
taken place
(a) Example - finishing 9th would give you 8th place odds
and you receive the 2nd draft slot per the lottery, team
will be swapped with team in the 3rd draft slot
(4) Games missed will also be used as a tie-breaker for lottery slots
with least games missed receiving best odds

II. Playoffs
A. Playoff Format
1. Four playoff teams (top four in standings)
a) Seeding tiebreaker will be Head-to-Head record
(1) If tied, will then be points scored
b) Matchup tiebreaker will be the PTS category
2. Rosters are locked during playoffs
a) Disabled player exception (DPE) is allowed; see below for specific details
b) Two way players are not eligible for playoffs
3. Playoffs last a total of two weeks to crown 1st-4th place

III. Salary Cap Rules
A. Salary Cap
1. All teams will adhere to a HARD CAP of 25 UNITS
a) This cap is a threshold under which you can sign free agents, trade, or
draft
b) Teams at the maximum cap (25/25 units) may take part in the free agency
draft but may only draft a G-league or Two Way eligible players if they
have available roster slots
2. The commissioner reserves the right to raise the cap every new season if
deemed necessary
B. Salary Structure Tiers
1. Tier A (3 Unit Base Salary)
a) Players are determined by the ~15 players listed on the All-NBA Teams
each season
2. Tier B (2 Unit Base Salary)
a) These players are the next top 50 highest fantasy scoring players NOT in
tier A or a Rookie Scale contract
b) This is a per game basis (not total points)
3. Tier C (1 Unit Base Salary)
a) This is remaining player pool NOT on a drafted rookie contract or
qualified for A or B
4. Tier D (1 Unit Base Salary)
a) Players on a rookie scale contract (drafted in round 1 or round 2)
b) Players in this tier will be available for a contract equal to the length of
their actual rookie contract (for pre-league drafted players)
c) Most have a 2 year + 2 year team option structure
d) Undrafted players signed to contract in the NBA are not in this Tier
5. Tier Exceptions
a) Injuries or other issues stopping a Tier A or Tier B player from playing
in over 65 games will keep them on the Tier A or Tier B pay scale until
they play in a season eclipsing 61.5 games played (Ex. Kawhi Leonard
2017/2018 season to 2018/2019)
b) Tier B will remain at minimum will be 50 games played
c) This is applied on the above parameters along with the commissioner's
discretion
C. Contract Lengths
1. Free Agency Contracts
a) Players signed via free agency are eligible for contracts depending on
the Tier level and status within the NBA
2. Tier A and B players are eligible for contracts of 1 to 4 years
a) If four years, player cannot be traded until December 15 of year 2
3. Tier C players are eligible for contracts 1 to 3 years
a) Standard trade rules apply
D. Injured Reserve
1. Injured Reserve Qualification
a) Players deemed eligible for an IR slot by the ESPN system
(1) Salary remains applied to cap
b) Players must be removed from IR slot within 24 hours of first game back
from injury
c) Player may only be replaced if acquisition works under cap restrictions,
or applying for a Disabled Player Exception
(1) See rule for Disabled Player Exception

IV. Player Re-Signings
A. Player Extension Structure
1. Players signed before March 1st are eligible for re-signing in the offseason
2. The penalty applied to the base tier fee will be +1 UNIT for every time that
player has been re-signed by current team
a) EXAMPLE: Tier A (3 UNIT BASE) comes off 2 year contract and resigning
for the first time with current team (+1 UNIT) will be at a contract yearly
total of 4 UNITS for between 1-3 years at the team’s discretion
b) EXAMPLE 2: TIER B (2 UNIT BASE) is finishing his 2nd 3-year contract
(+2 UNITS) and current team can choose to re-sign him for 4 UNIT
salary or choose to release him to free agency
3. There is no maximum to the re-signing multiplier (4th time resigning 4x 1 UNIT
= 4 UNITS + base salary tier)
4. Players released for free agency and drafted by the same team is NOT subjected
to the re-signed player penalty after the 1st round of the draft
5. When trading a player, player keeps re-signed penalty as if with same team
a) Example: Player X re-signs with Team A one time and then is traded
before current contract has ended. Team B then re-signs Player X and is
assessed the +2 Unit re-signing fee
6. Re-sign player penalty only resets when player hits free agency pool whether in
offseason or during season
B. Rookie Scale Extensions
1. Players coming off their rookie contract are eligible to be resigned for no
penalty
a) Only the base value will be charged for an extension at the length of
teams choosing
b) If player is Tier B in their final year they will qualify for the fourth year
C. Super Max Rookie Extension or “RME” (Only Rookie Drafted Players Eligible)
1. Eligibility
a) Must fit all criteria below:
(1) Only players controlled by one single team since rookie draft
are eligible (List of team drafted players available on individual
cap sheet)
(2) Trading a player or releasing a player to free agency at any time
makes player ineligible
b) A full rookie scale contract extension must have been used for 2nd
contract (career years 5 through 7 or 8 depending if they qualified)
c) Player must have been in top 50 of league fantasy points per game
scoring while reaching minimum games played in first 7 years of career
2. Keeps base value for the third contract only
a) Players are eligible for a full 4 year max or Super Max extension if they
qualify
b) Resign penalties apply on all subsequent contracts
D. Super Max Extension
1. This is an extension option for high producing players.
2. The contract length will be for 5 years
3. Eligibility
a) Any player that has been issued All NBA in their career and is 3 units or
higher.
4. Trade Rules
a) These players may not be traded in the first three years of this contract.
Players become eligible on December 15 of Year 4
5.

V. Rookie Drafting and Lottery
A. Draft Structure
1. Annual straight draft (non-snake) two round draft
a) This will take place offline through a doc or chat
b) See rookie contracts terms & extension rules
c) Total games missed, or penalized for, will also be used as a tie-breaker
for lottery slots with least games missed receiving best odds
d) Lower points in season picks first
e) Coin flip
B. Draft Order
1. Teams finishing 1st through 4th place will pick in the following order
a) 1st - 10th pick
b) 2nd - 9th pick
c) 3rd - 8th pick
d) 4th - 7th pick
2. Lottery order is determined using the actual NBA lottery
a) NBA teams are allocated based on the chart below for teams not making
the playoffs
b) Team 1 - 10th place
Team 2 - 9th place
Team 3 - 8th place
Team 4 - 7th place
Team 5 - 6th place
Team 6 - 5th place
Team 7 - 10th “ “
Team 8 - 9th “ “
Team 9 - 8th “ “
Team 10 - 7th “ “
Team 11 - 6th “ “
Team 12 - 5th “ “
Team 13 - 10th “ “
Team 14 - 9th “ “
3. Chances of getting first pick in draft
a) 10th - 22.5%
9th - 20.5%
8th - 18.5%
7th - 15.5%
6th - 12.5%
5th - 10.5%
4. Draft Sanctions
a) *See not reaching games played maximum in “Weekly Matchup Format”

VI. Free Agency
A. In-Season Free Agency
1. Players can be added from free agency for any length of contract as long as it
adheres to the tier system and the salary cap
a) This is on a first come first serve basis (after initial rosters are set for
the season)
b) All roster moves should be cleared with commissioner before making
the move within the ESPN system to ensure it follows cap rules
2. Players released to free agency cannot be reclaimed until after 30 calendar days
by same team
a) Original contract is still valid; this does not cost you additional units
when reclaimed in the same season
B. Off-Season Free Agency
1. Player selection will take place in a straight draft (non-snake) format
2. The first year order will be randomly selected
3. The second season order (and on) will be set by using a “NBA Win Pool” contest
system
a) In reverse order from the free agency draft order, teams will select
which slot they want to pick their NBA teams for that season
(1) 10th picks slot first, 9th next etc.
4. NBA Win Pool Slots
a) Slot 1 - Pick 1, 20, 30
Slot 2 - Pick 2, 19, 29
Slot 3 - Pick 3, 16, 28
Slot 4 - Pick 4, 17, 27
Slot 5 - Pick 5, 15, 26
Slot 6 - Pick 6, 13, 24
Slot 7 - Pick 7, 11, 25
Slot 8 - Pick 8, 18, 21
Slot 9 - Pick 9, 14, 23
Slot 10 - Pick 10, 12, 22
5. Highest total in the wins pool will pick first in the free agency draft
6. Tie Breakers will be as follows:
a) Least amount of games missed during season picks first
b) Worse record picks first
c) Lower points in season picks first
d) Coin flip
7. The deadline to decide whether or not to re-sign a player AND their contract
terms are due August 4th
a) This established how many open roster slots + G-league slots you will
have for picks
b) Rosters lock 3 days before the free agency draft
c) No players may be released during the actual draft
8. Draft will take place September 15th

VII. Trading
A. Trading Fundamentals
1. All trades must work within the roster and salary cap restrictions
a) Draft picks, dead cap, and cap holds can all be included when trading
B. Trade Dates
1. Trade deadline February 11th 8:00 PM*
a) *Sunday following the NBA Trade Deadline at 8pm
2. Free Agent players signed in the offseason draft are eligible for trade as of
December 15
a) This stops teams as signing players for strictly trade fodder
b) Resigned players are immediately eligible for trade
3. Any players added after the start of the season cannot be traded for 30 calendar
days
C. Trade Processing
1. All trades must be sent to the commissioner for approval with full terms and an
agreeable time in which trade would like to be processed
2. Trades that are to be processed immediately can be day of up until the deadline
of 3pm - full terms must be complete at this time
3. Any trade that is sent in after 3pm will be processed next calendar day before
games begin
D. Wiggins/Love Rule
1. Drafted rookies may be traded at any time. This is an exclusion to the December
15 rule
2. Excludes players signed in free agency draft
E. 1 for 1 Rule
1. Players traded for can only be traded again in a 1-for-1 type format until after 30
calendar days
2. After 30 days, players may be traded within cap rules without restrictions
F. Draft Pick Trading
1. All teams are gifted 2 rookie draft picks for 6 years, (current and the 5
subsequent years)
2. Stepien Rule Applies
a) no team may trade away its first-round pick in back-to-back future
drafts. A team must always have at least one first-round pick in either
the current draft or the next one. A pick received does count towards
having a first in a draft.
3. Draft picks may have following stipulations attached to them
a) Protections - Picks may be traded with protections attached to them
Team A trades 2016 1st round pick to Team B (top 3 protected).
This means if the pick ends up being in the top 3 of the draft, it is not
conveyed. It would become unprotected in the following year.
b) Pick Swaps - Teams may trade the right to swap picks in the same
rounds
G. DeMar DeRozan Rule
1. Players sent out in trades are no longer able to be acquired by the original team
via trade for a 2 year period from the initial trade date.

VIII. Salary Cap Provisions & Exclusions
A. Stretch Provision
1. One time, per team, over the span of 2 years
2. If a team waives a player, you have the capability of spreading the remaining
UNITS over twice the remaining length of the contract (at least 1 UNIT per year
a) Example: Waiving a player with a 2 yr/ 8 UNIT contract will stretch his
cap hit to your team over 4 years (2x2) at 2 UNITS (8/4) per year
Stretched player is immediately released to the free agency pool
3. Players may be stretched any time from opening day to the start of playoffs
B. Contractual Buyouts
1. A team can buyout a player if they are able to fit the entirety of the contractual
units within the salary cap of the current year
2. The total units of the remaining contract have to adhere to the salary cap of that
current year
a) Example A: Player A has 2 years remaining 1 unit per year. Current team
cap is 23/25. Both units get applied to the current year cap making it
24/25 and player is released.
b) Example B: Player B has 3 years remaining at 2 unit per year. Current
team has a cap of 23/25. A buyout would result in 27/25 making this
illegal. Team would have to clear space or wait until the following year.
3. Players can be bought out anytime up until the start of the playoffs.
4. Reverse standings will act as waiver priority for player after buyout is finalized.
a) See buyout market contract rules if after the trade deadline.
C. Disabled Player Exception
1. This exception allows a team to replace a disabled player who will be out for the
remainder of that fantasy season
2. These will only be granted if the NBA has issued a DPE and must be used before
the fantasy playoffs begin.
3. The team can acquire one player via free agent signing or waiver claim, to
replace the disabled player that is less than or equal to the UNIT salary of the
DPE’d player
a) (EXAMPLE: 2 UNIT player with DPE granted - Team can acquire an
active player that has a UNIT price of 2 or less.)
4. Teams can apply for a disabled player exception only if they are at 100% (25/25
UNITS) of the salary cap.
5. This exception is granted on a season-by-season basis
a) If the player will also be out the following season, the team needs to
apply for this exception again the following season.
6. Players approved for the DPE and placed on the IR cannot be traded that year,
they also cannot be removed from the IR for any reason that season.
7. The disabled player’s salary still applies to the cap.
D. Salary Exclusion Injury Exemption
1. There is one injury exception whereby a salary is excluded from team salary due
to either death or retirement.
2. If approved, the player’s remaining contract will be removed from the cap
immediately.
E. Long Term Injury Salary Relief
1. Designed for players injured in the offseason or that suffered an injury in the
season prior that will cause the player to miss the entirety of the upcoming
season.
2. A qualifying injury will be at the commissioner's discretion and must be
presented with undeniable evidence that the player in question will miss the
entirety of the fantasy regular season.
a) Injured player is required to be placed into an IR reserve spot
b) Injured player will not be eligible for the entirety of the fantasy season
once approved.
3. Salary relief will equate to one half the players current salary rounded up to the
next full number with the maximum relief being 2 units.
a) Injured Player salary 3: (3 / .5) = 1.5 rounded to 2 units
b) Injured Player salary 2: (2 / .5) = 1 unit
c) Injured Player salary 5: (5 / .5) = 2.5 rounded DOWN 2 units max
4. There is no maximum to that number of players that can qualify from one single
team.

IX. 10-Day Contracts & Buyout Market
A. 10-Day Contracts
1. Each team will be granted two 10-Day contracts to be used beginning Jan 1st
a) This comes at a NO Unit cost, but team must have open roster spot
b) Only Tier C and Rookie Contract players are eligible (No Tier A or Tier B
is eligible)
2. Contract expires and player must be released, resigned, or granted 2nd 10-Day
contract at midnight of 10th day
3. 24 hour waiver claim period by reverse standing priority will take place starting
Jan 1st
a) If no claims made during this 24 hour period it becomes first come first
serve basis
4. Players on 10-day contracts are not eligible for the playoffs

X. G-League & Two Way Players
A. G-League Format
1. Each team will be given 5 spots to use for G-league eligible players
a) Rosters are viewable on the “Dynasty Document” under the G-League
tab
b) Players may never be relegated to the G-League from the active roster
during the season
2. G-League players salaries are not counted towards cap until they are added to
an active roster
a) This keeps G-League players in the ESPN Free Agency Pool
3. G-League contracts do not count against the main roster salary cap until
recalled, if released when hitting the 90 games played team will not be charged
the contract salary (even if multiple years remain)
a) Players added during the season who are demoted to the G-League in
the offseason have their salary removed from the cap until they are
permanently recalled again.
B. Eligibility
1. Eligibility for G League and Two Way will be any first or second year rookie
players OR under 90 games played
a) Players may remain in G-League or Two Way roster until following
season when surpassing 90 game mark
2. Rookie drafted players are automatically eligible for a G-League roster spot
a) Free Agency drafted players may be placed in G-League if they fit the
games played or year requirement
3. Any player may be placed in a G-League spot from the end of the Rookie Draft
to the beginning of the season
4. A player can remain in the G-League indefinitely, unless they eclipse the
G-League qualified status
C. Two Way Players
1. Each team is allotted (3) Two-Way Player slots
2. Two-Way contracts make players active on roster for the entire regular season.
3. A Two-Way contract signed in season enables player to be on an active NBA
roster for days remaining for G-League slot
a) Two-Way players are not eligible for playoff games
D. Eligibility
1. Eligibility for G League and Two Way will be any first or second year rookie
players OR under 90 games played
a) Players may exceed 90 games played while in a Two-Way slot
b) Two-Way Contracts can be turned into active NBA contracts and
expanded to any length allowed under current salary and roster rules at
anytime
c) Another player can then be signed to a TWC if they fall under guidelines
for service days
d) Two-Way Contracts can be outright waived for no penalty at any time
e) Two-Way Players ARE NOT eligible for the playoffs unless added to the
active NBA roster before playoffs begin

XI. Keepers
A. Keeper System
1. Every offseason, all CONTRACTED players will carry over
2. Players whose contracts expire, and are not re-signed by a specific date will be
added to free agency draft pool
a) Players released to free agency and reclaimed will not be subjected to
the signing multiplier and can be signed at base salary
3. League activity is locked during the real NBA playoffs
a) The offseason officially begins once the NBA playoffs are over and the
ESPN system rolls over.
4. You may NOT carry more than 15 active players on your roster at any time.
a) 13 min active players - 25 max total players including 5 G-League
players, 3 Two Way and 2 IR spots.

XII. League Fees & Payouts
A. League Fees
1. Cost is $100 entry fee + $25 refundable fee at the beginning of each season
a) $75 due by Rookie Draft
b) $50 due by Free Agency Draft
2. Teams that miss 5+ games will need to replenish their refundable fee back to the
full $25
a) This is due before the Sunday of the following matchup
b) Failure to pay by Sunday 12pm will result in a loss for the following week
matchup
3. All fees are subject to change at the commissioner's discretion or league vote.
4. Commissioner reserves the right to make teams that trade 1st Round Picks pay
50% of league fee for every year they trade a pick in
a) (IE. player A trades 2020 first and 2022 first they owe 2x half of league
fee at that year = $100 to commissioner before trade is processed)
B. Payouts
1. First Place - $500
2. 2nd Place - $250
3. 3rd Place - $150
4. 4th Place - $100
a) All money from penalties will be added to each spot evenly.

XIII. Final Comments
A. ROSTER MANAGEMENT REGULATION: Since this is a keeper dynasty league, teams are
encouraged to strategize around what's best for their team. Teams that are in danger of
missing the playoffs may choose to trade productive older players with contracts they
no longer want to subsidize, in order to acquire future draft picks and younger cheaper
keepers to build for future years, much like a real-life sports scenario, (as long as it
works within our salary cap rules). However, there is a line that can be crossed between
planning for future seasons and tanking completely. Instances such as teams not filling
their daily lineup in order to acquire a higher draft pick or dropping superstars for
whatever reason will not be tolerated. Situations such as that will be monitored by me,
and addressed if need be. A league poll may be instituted if such mishaps arise, or
simply ruled on at my own discretion. My main priority is maintaining a fair and fun
environment for everyone.